# Export to BMZ

!!! warning "Legacy documentation"
    This documentation is for the legacy version of CAREamics (v0.1), which is
    accessible through the `careamics.compat` module. It is kept here for reference, but
    we recommend using the latest version of CAREamics (v0.2) for new projects. Head to the [v0.2 guides](../v0.2/index.md).

The [BioImage Model Zoo](https://bioimage.io/#/) is a zoo of models that can be run in 
a variety of software thanks to the 
[BMZ format](https://github.com/bioimage-io/spec-bioimage-io). CAREamics is compatible 
with the BMZ format and can export and load (CAREamics) models in this format.

To export a trained model, you can simply call `careamist.export_to_bmz`:

```python title="Export to BMZ format"
--8<-- "v0.1/careamist_api/usage/bmz.py:export"
```

1. The model export should be a `.zip` file, if not CAREamics will add the extension.

2. Give the model a name that is informative! It should consist of letters, numbers,
hyphens and underscores.

3. We need an input array to verify the export, the input and the prediction will be 
packaged in the BMZ model. They will also be used to create the cover of the model if
it is uploaded to the [BioImage Model Zoo](https://bioimage.io/#/).

4. You can have multiple authors, and `affiliation`, `email`, `orcid` and 
`github _user`.

5. A README will automatically be generated by CAREamics, containing information on how
the model was trained. The general description should be a short description of what
the model is used for.

6. The `data_description` should contain precise information on the type of data the 
model was trained on, this can include the type of data (specimen, modality), the
dimensions (physical, number of pixels) and the content (type of structures).

## Optional parameters

The `export_to_bmz` function has an optional parameter:

``` python
--8<-- "v0.1/careamist_api/usage/bmz.py:optional"
```

1. If your data has channels, then you should add their name!


## Examples of CAREamics models

!!! warning "In progress"
    This page is still in construction.